# Proposal

### Introduction

Deepfake is a technique to generate realistic videos and photos of fake events with a high potential to deceive, which may mislead viewers’ information consumption. It is a source of misinformation, intimidation, harassment and manipulation when being malevolently used. Therefore, how to detect deepfakes has become a serious problem. To solve this problem, some tech companies and academics cooperate to build the deepfake Detection Challenge (DFDC) on Kaggle, and we want to leverage deep learning algorithms to come up with innovative methods to detect these manipulated videos.

### Related Works

Deepfake, as a technique that replaces one's face with someone else's in images and videos, can be traced back to the Video Rewrite [Bregler 1997] program in 1997. It automatically creates new videos of people with lip synchronization based on the dubbing sound. Since then, researchers devoted to the algorithm that generates more realistic videos, which humans can hardly distinguish. The basic idea of deepfake is to first recognize and crop the face, and then train them by the same encoder and two different decoders. Mori et al. propose a method for creating new content of human motion by splicing together clips of the input video. In 2016, Thies et al. presented an approach for real time face capture and reenactment from monocular video streams. Work by Chan et al. expands the motion transfer to the full human body, using modern pose detection techniques, OpenPose, and state-of-the-art image generation models.

Ever since the term "deepfake" emerged in 2017, detecting synthetic videos has become a new trend in computer vision and deep learning, in which many focus on CNN-based models with competitive results. Guera et al. extract frame-level features from CNN, and send them to the LSTM for temporal sequence analysis, so manipulated videoclips could be detected. In 2019, Rossler et al. presented the state-of-the-art FaceForensics++. The approach is based on a fine-tuned Xception net, pre-trained on ImageNet, to detect fake videos. Amerini et al. put forward an idea that trains Flow-CNN classifiers with optical flow fields.

###Method/Algorithm

Our input datasets include original videos and videos generated by deepfake, which is in total 470GB. We will try to model on sample data less than 10GB. Then, after the model designing and the preliminary evaluation, we will apply the model to all videos to see the performance among all dataset. 

We would need a pipeline to handle video clip inputs. A natural intuition would be slice the video frame by frame and perform detections on the frames. Since deep fake is an algorithm used to change the face in the videos, we will mainly focus on the faces inside the frames. Thus, an existing face detection and cropping framework, such as facenet, will be used to crop out the faces frame by frame. 

The next step would be a classification problem. These face data will be further forwarded into our neural network architecture, and be classified as fake video or real video. We would apply CNN to extract features from frame of videos. Then, since video has an inner time sequence property, we propose using RNN and LSTM to detect the unusual variation. An intuition would be letting the network learn face clips from the frames, and if it detects a face different from the previous ones, it would be reasonable to suspect the video is synthesized by deep fake.

### Reference

- Mori, G., Berg, A., Efros, A., Eden, A., & Malik, J. (2004). Video based motion synthesis by splicing and morphing. Computer Science.

- Thies, J., Zollhofer, M., Stamminger, M., Theobalt, C., & Nießner, M. (2016). Face2face: Real-time face capture and reenactment of rgb videos. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 2387-2395).

- Chan, C., Ginosar, S., Zhou, T., & Efros, A. A. (2019). Everybody dance now. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (pp. 5933-5942).

- Rossler, A., Cozzolino, D., Verdoliva, L., Riess, C., Thies, J., & Nießner, M. (2019). Faceforensics++: Learning to detect manipulated facial images. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (pp. 1-11).

- Güera, D., & Delp, E. J. (2018, November). Deepfake video detection using recurrent neural networks. In 2018 15th IEEE International Conference on Advanced Video and Signal Based Surveillance (AVSS) (pp. 1-6). IEEE.

- Deepfake Detection Challenge. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.kaggle.com/c/deepfake-detection-challenge
